Add docs to run the new benchmark suite locally (#12614)
openxla/iree: docs/developers/developing_iree/benchmark_suites.md

# IREE Benchmark Suites

> **We are in progress to replace the legacy benchmark suites. Currently this new

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**We are in the progress of replacing the legacy benchmark suites. Currently these new
```

benchmark suites only support `x86_64`, `CUDA`, and `compilation statistics`
benchmarks. For working with the legacy benchmark suites, see
[IREE Benchmarks (Legacy)](/benchmarks/README.md)**.

IREE Benchmarks Suites is a collection of benchmarks for IREE developers to

> track performance improvements/regressions during the development.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
track performance improvements/regressions during development.
```

```suggestion
track performance improvements/regressions during the development of IREE.
```

The benchmark suites are run for each commit on the main branch and the results
are uploaded to https://perf.iree.dev for regression analysis (for the current
supported targets). On pull requests, users can write `benchmarks:
x86_64,cuda,comp-stats` (or a subset) at the bottom of the PR descriptions and
re-run the CI workflow to trigger the benchmark runs. The results will be
compared with https://perf.iree.dev and post in the comments.

Information about the configrations and definitions of the benchmark suites can

> be found [here](/build_tools/python/benchmark_suites/iree/README.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
be found in the [Benchmark Suites README](/build_tools/python/benchmark_suites/iree/README.md).
```

It's nice to make links more specific text than just "here". Makes it more searchable, scannable by eye, visible out of context, etc

and
[TFLite Integration](https://openxla.github.io/iree/getting-started/tflite/)).

### Build Benchmark Suites

Configure IREE with `-DIREE_BUILD_E2E_TEST_ARTIFACTS=ON`:

```sh
cmake -GNinja -B "${IREE_BUILD_DIR}" -S "${IREE_REPO}" \
  -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo \
  -DCMAKE_C_COMPILER=clang \
  -DCMAKE_CXX_COMPILER=clang++ \
  -DIREE_ENABLE_LLD=ON \
  -DIREE_BUILD_E2E_TEST_ARTIFACTS=ON
```

Build the benchmark suites and tools:

```sh
cmake --build "${IREE_BUILD_DIR}" --target \
  iree-e2e-test-artifacts \
  iree-benchmark-module
```

### Run Benchmarks

Export the execution benchmark config:

```sh
build_tools/benchmarks/export_benchmark_config.py execution > exec_config.json
```

Run benchmarks (currently only support running on a Linux host):

```sh
build_tools/benchmarks/run_benchmarks_on_linux.py \
  --normal_benchmark_tool_dir="${IREE_BUILD_DIR}/tools" \
  --e2e_test_artifacts_dir="${IREE_BUILD_DIR}/e2e_test_artifacts" \
  --execution_benchmark_config=exec_config.json \
  --target_device_name="<target_device_name, e.g. c2-standard-16>" \
  --output=benchmark_results.json \
  --verbose \

>   --cpu_uarch="<host CPU uarch, e.g. CascadeLake>"

Reviewer: Shouldn't this be part of the benchmark configuration itself?

Author: Yes, it's part of the follow-up improvement.

# Traces can be collected by adding:
# --traced_benchmark_tool_dir="${IREE_TRACED_BUILD_DIR}/tools" \
# --trace_capture_tool=/path/to/iree-tracy-capture \
# --capture_tarball=captured_tracy_files.tar.gz
```

Note that: - `<target_device_name>` selects a benchmark group targets a specific
device: - Common options: - `c2-standard-16` for x86_64 CPU benchmarks -
`a2-highgpu-1g` for NVIDIA GPU benchmarks - All device names are defined
[here](/build_tools/python/e2e_test_framework/device_specs) - To run x86_64
benchmarks, right now `--cpu_uarch` needs to be provided and only `CascadeLake`
is available currently. - To build traced benchmark tools, see instructions

> [here](/docs/developers/developing_iree/profiling_with_tracy.md).

Reviewer: Formatting got screwed up?

Author: Fixed.

Filters can be used to select the benchmarks:

```sh
build_tools/benchmarks/run_benchmarks_on_linux.py \
  --normal_benchmark_tool_dir="${IREE_BUILD_DIR}/tools" \
  --e2e_test_artifacts_dir="${IREE_BUILD_DIR}/e2e_test_artifacts" \
  --execution_benchmark_config=exec_config.json \
  --target_device_name="c2-standard-16" \
  --output=benchmark_results.json \
  --verbose \
  --cpu_uarch="CascadeLake" \
  --model_name_regex="MobileBert*" \
  --driver_filter_regex='local-task' \

>   --mode_regex="4-thread"

Reviewer: Maybe than having a separate flag for each of these, we could have a generic `--filter-regex=driver=local-task` or similar? That seems more scalable to me

Author: Added to the UX TODO list #12215

```

### Generate Compilation Statistics (Compilation Benchmarks)

Export the compilation benchmark config:

```sh
build_tools/benchmarks/export_benchmark_config.py compilation > comp_config.json
```

Generate the compilation statistics:

```sh
build_tools/benchmarks/collect_compilation_statistics.py \
  alpha \
  --compilation_benchmark_config=comp_config.json \
  --e2e_test_artifacts_dir="${IREE_BUILD_DIR}/e2e_test_artifacts" \
  --build_log="${IREE_BUILD_DIR}/.ninja_log" \
  --output=compile_stats_results.json
```

> Note that you need to use **ninja** (https://ninja-build.org/) to build the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that you need to use `ninja` (https://ninja-build.org/) to build the
```

If it's the name of the executable. Otherwise

```suggestion
Note that you need to use [Ninja](https://ninja-build.org/) to build the
```

benchmark suites as the tool collects information from its build log.

### Show Execution / Compilation Benchmark Results

See
[Generating Benchmark Report](/build_tools/benchmarks/README.md#generating-benchmark-report).

### Find Compile and Run Commands to Reproduce Benchmarks

Each benchmark has its benchmark ID in the benchmark suites, you will see their
benchmark IDs at: - In the serie's URL of https://perf.iree.dev: - Execution
benchmark: `https://perf.iree.dev/serie?IREE?<benchmark_id>` - Compilation
benchmark: `https://perf.iree.dev/serie?IREE?<benchmark_id>-<metric_id>` - In
`benchmark_results.json` and `compile_stats_results.json` - Each execution
benchmark result has a field `run_config_id` - Each compilation benchmark result
has a field `gen_config_id` - In the markdown generated by
`diff_local_benchmarks.py`, each benchmark shows its https://perf.iree.dev URL,

> which contains its benchmark ID.

Reviewer: Formatting got screwed up?

Author: Fixed.
